# STEM

My long-range goal is to become a thought-leader in creating innovative technologies that will empower individuals, especially those who are neurodivergent, to maximize their potential. As an advocate who believes that efficient access to knowledge is a critical component to fostering inclusion and productivity, I dream of using science to create a new industry standard in assistive technologies. To reach my goal, I have sought out opportunities to build my STEM skillset beyond core science and math classes offered at my school and am taking steps to gain hands-on experience and further my expertise in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. 

My passion for STEM motivated me to identify learning opportunities outside of core science and math classes at school. In sixth grade, I began to study computer programming through Codecademy and now am proficient in six coding languages. As a sophomore, I applied to be a student in [Fab Academy](./fab-academy/index.md), a college-level course which greatly expanded my skills in digital fabrication and rapid-prototyping. I used the final project requirement for this course to bring to life my vision for an assistive technology to support people with Tourette Syndrome in interactions with law enforcement at traffic stops. 

Within my elective classes at Charlotte Latin, I’ve taken many courses in the Innovation & Design department, and have consistently taken the initiative to go beyond required assignments to create solutions to challenges. For example, while taking Game Development last winter, my teacher shared that creating tests with realistic, incorrect multiple-choice options was time intensive. To help, I coded the [Test Generator](./test-generator/index.md), an application that requires two inputs from a teacher, test topic and number of questions, to generate a test within Google Forms in seconds. My code integrated ChatGPT with Google Forms to create a seamless experience for educators. The Test Generator is actively being used by teachers at the Charlotte Latin Innovation & Design Department. 

As another example, this year in Civil Engineering, students were tasked with creating the most cost-effective bridge capable of sustaining 225kN of force. The class used West Point Bridge Designer software to determine the cost and strength of each design. Although I could have utilized manual trial and error, I began examining how Bridge Designer’s open-source code, written in Java, calculated the maximum load a bridge could sustain. Then, I wrote a script to calculate the minimum weight each member must hold, as well as the member strength for all combinations of length, shape, material, and size. I researched how to calculate tensile and compressive strength from a given material’s yield stress, modulus of elasticity, cross-section area, and moment of inertia before implementing a genetic algorithm in Python to test 200,000+ different designs and find the lowest-cost bridge that held the required weight. Although it wasn’t required, in addition to understanding basic bridge design, I learned how the simulation software worked and developed an automated approach to the optimization exercise. 

To continue on my educational trajectory, I recently enrolled classes to get a Cisco Certified Network Associate certification. Gaining a robust foundation in networking, IP services, security, automation and programmability will give me a foundation in another aspect of Network Science. I recently applied for and was offered an internship to get hands-on experience working for Rhythm Link, a company that creates technologies within the neurophysiology medical space. I’ve signed an NDA regarding my research, but I can share that I’ll be working with the R&D department on a project that will include research and prototyping, as well as presenting to senior management. 

The actions I have taken to date are the first steps in my educational path to reach my long-term goal of achieving scientific discoveries that can be used in assistive technologies. Next year I will apply to colleges that have rigorous STEM curriculum and opportunities for hands-on research for underclassmen to continue building my skill set. The knowledge, experience, and relationships that RSI offers would be invaluable, and I would take every opportunity to learn from and contribute to the summer experience. 
