# Arts

From the moment I first stepped on stage, I felt the exhilaration of persuading an audience to believe in my story. Motivated to capture the audience’s imagination, I’ve invested a great deal of time honing my dancing, acting, and singing skills. 

Being a third-degree black belt in Taekwondo has helped my physicality on stage, but several years ago I wanted to get more formal training. I auditioned for the [Charlotte Ballet’s Summer Workshop](https://charlotteballet.org/) and had the opportunity to spend six weeks learning from esteemed faculty in multiple genres of dance. I’ve also been fortunate to have studied acting and singing with incredible coaches. 

I’ve performed in 11 productions in the past six years and was extremely honored to be a Best Actor Finalist at the [Blumey Awards](https://www.blumenthalarts.org/blumey-awards) two years in a row for my roles as [Billy Cane in “Bright Star”](./billy-cane.md) and [Lord Farquaad in “Shrek, The Musical.”](./farquaad.md) The Blumey Awards recognizes exceptional achievements in high school musical theater and is a regional qualifier to the [Jimmy Awards](https://www.jimmyawards.com/), a Broadway program for top talent in musical theater. 

In every character I portray, I find a truth that we share. For example, when I embraced the character of Lord Farquaad, an insecure villain whose disdain for diversity drives him to terrorize his fairytale kingdom in the name of conformity, every laugh at his expense showed me that the audience realized his intolerance was detrimental and ridiculous. I could connect to Farquaad’s impulses since most of us have insecurities and want to blend in at times, but as an advocate for people with disabilities, I clearly understand the dangers of limiting acceptance to only those who fit a certain norm. I was thrilled to be able to share the message of inclusion in an entertaining way that resonated with people of all ages in the Charlotte community. 

I’ve been able to harness my passion for theater and help others embrace the arts and improve their own skills as the President of the Thespian Club and Dance Captain for “Shrek, the Musical” at Charlotte Latin. Helping my peers in their artistic pursuits is not only fun, but it forces me to look at the creation of art from a different point of view. Dancing is very different from teaching others how to move. The challenge of directing others has enhanced my own creativity and given me new ideas.