# About

Hi! I'm Adam Stone. I go to Charlotte Latin School (class of '25) in Charlotte, North Carolina. Before moving to Charlotte, I lived in São Paulo, Brazil, and before that, Raleigh, North Carolina.

I love engineering and have always been passionate about building things. I started attending computer science and electronics summer camps like Thinking Feet when I was in elementary school, and I have also taught myself Python, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C#, and C++ on Codecademy.com. I've built many software projects, from a [research project analyzing the Fab Academy open source community network](./stem/expert-network-map/index.md) to a [mobile game on the Google Play Store using Unity](./stem/ninja-cube-ultimate/index.md) to many others linked [here](./stem/index.md). When I came to Charlotte Latin School, I began taking Engineering as an elective, learning from Dr. Taylor, Ms. Morrow, and Mr. Dubick. Here is my Digital Portfolio - my documentation from those classes. Some of my favorite pojects include a robot arm controlled via bluetooth with a mobile app (code linked here) and a clock that can be adjusted to any time zone wirelessly.

I'm passionate about musical theater. Ever since I was very little, I have loved being on stage. When I was eight, I was in my first production as Rodger in 101 Dalmations Jr. at the Durant Road Musical Theater in Raleigh, NC. Since then some of my favorite roles have been Michael Banks in Mary Poppins, Billy Cane in Bright Star, and Lord Farquaad in Shrek the Musical. I was a Best Actor Finalist in the Blumey Awards for the past two years for my performances, which was a great honor.

The art of communicating is something I also highly value. When I was in preschool, my family moved to São Paulo, Brazil and enrolled me in a local school. Within three months, I was able to learn in Portuguese. My experience living abroad sparked a love for learning languages (I am proficient in three) and also a desire to use language to make connections. When I was in sixth grade, I joined the Speech & Debate Team at Charlotte Latin School and have been competing in national tournaments every year since in numerous speech events, as well as Lincoln-Douglas debate. For each speech event, a student is required to deliver a ten-minute, memorized speech around a theme of choice. I’ve taken the opportunity to touch on topics that are very important to me, such as the negative impacts of ableism, as well as more entertaining topics like the American obsession with straight teeth and its greater implications. In addition to being the champion speaker at tournaments held by Stanford, Princeton and Duke Universities, I’ve had the honor of qualifying to compete at the Tournament of Champions at the high school level every year since seventh grade. The Tournament of Champions is considered the most prestigious national high school competition. Only finalists at multiple national tournaments are invited to compete. I also enjoy Lincoln Douglas debate which requires students to argue both sides of an issue utilizing logic, ethics, and philosophy. In ninth grade, I was the JV Lincoln Douglas State Champion for North Carolina. The biggest highlights of Speech & Debate have been moments when competitors and judges have told me that my words changed their perspective. There have also been many moments when my competitors have made me question my own beliefs, which I equally value. As the Captain of the Charlotte Latin Speech & Debate Team, I work with teammates to improve their written speeches and delivery. I’ve also led a summer camp to help members be competitive early in the school year. Through Speech & Debate, I’ve learned to be an effective researcher, communicator, and synthesizer of data, developed friendships across the country, and sharpened my skills in nuanced and critical thinking in a variety of topics.

For most of my life I've been involved with Martial Arts. I'm a third-degree black belt in Taekwondo and currently train at the Ballantyne Kicks studio with Master Russel Aupied.

I'm also a Youth Ambassador for the Tourette Association of America. In this role, I advocate for funding and research surrounding Tourette's and tic disorders every year on Capital Hill, as well as educate students and teachers about the condition to promote inclusion and acceptance. To read more about this, see my Final Project Outline page.